Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Previously on House of David.
As a reward for your bravery.
I give you command of a thousand men!
We are worthy. We always have been.
And if you truly believed that.
what would you ask for?
I offer you my beautiful
daughter in marriage.
Mirab.
You shamed my daughter.
Did you defile this man's daughter?
I mean. probably. I... Uh...
I choose to banish my son.
He can never return
without paying his debt.
I would use dark magic.
He will not change the law.
Perhaps you will have to.
You and I are the only two
of our line who will survive.
You must crown me king.
Keep this between us for now.
We did this out of necessity.
- Great prophet.
- Send for the family of Jesse.
What I know has a currency
worth more than gold.
I'll start with a question.
Can people change?
Can they rise above their nature?
Life has taught me we emerge through fire.
We transform through suffering.
Let me tell you my story.
You are Eshbaal? Prince of Israel?
Banished to Endor by his own family. Yes?
Yes.
Good.
Are you coming?
If you plan to ransom me.
I have disappointing news.
I hold no value in my father's eyes.
Perhaps. I see much more than he does.
Come. my friend.
we have no need for conflict.
I'm no friend of yours. or your gods.
You will learn in time.
Do as you are told.
and I will spare you the whip.
It's not a trick.
Have your fill.
Tell me. Prince.
have you ever seen an elephant?
What do you want of me?
Enormous. powerful creatures.
but easy to tame.
When they are young. you simply
have to tie them to a pole by a rope.
No matter how much they try.
they cannot break their restraint.
They resist. they fight.
but in time they give up.
Once grown.
the massive beast can be tied
to the same pole by a simple string.
Because it thinks of itself
what it has been taught to believe.
Power begins in the mind.
not in the body.
What do you want of me?
You will suffer until
you understand who you really are.
No more.
I'll do anything.
Please.
Remove his bindings.
He is of no threat anymore.
Sit down.
Drink.
Why do you show me mercy now?
Like the elephant. Eshbaal...
you ceased resisting the rope
that held you back.
You became compliant.
allowing lesser men to choose your fate.
but now...
it's time for you to decide your path...
To decide for yourself.
I am loyal to the house
of my father. Saul. son of Kish.
Servant to none.
I didn't break. Father.
I killed my captors.
freed the other prisoners.
and together we escaped.
It's quite the story. Eshbaal.
I passed through the fire. Father.
Do I not seem different to you?
A man proves his substance
by what he does. not what he says.
Then allow me to earn your trust...
with honesty.
Before you returned in triumph.
I was crowned king by Mother.
We believed
you had been defeated and killed.
that someone had to step up and lead
what was left of our people. and so I did.
- You took your opportunity.
- To protect my queen and your legacy.
And yet neither of you spoke
a word of it until now...
You think I didn't hear whispers
about your coronation?
There are no secrets
that time does not betray. Eshbaal.
Mother would have told you in time.
But I am telling you now.
I have made more mistakes in my life
than I care to admit.
but I promise you
I wish to redeem them all.
How so?
The woman I defiled and was banished for.
I will marry her.
in accordance with the Law of Moses.
Ease the burden on our family
and the kingdom.
all for your glory...
my king.
David... David.
I'm sorry.
I don't know why he would do that.
- My father he's just--
- I know.
I don't know what to do now.
I know. But we cannot give up.
What are you reading?
- The story of Joseph.
- Mmm.
It's my favorite.
- Would you read it to me?
- Yes. Yes.
"And Joseph said to them.
do not be afraid...
Am I in the place of God?
You intended to harm me.
but the Lord used it for good.
- To..."
- "To accomplish what is now being done."
It's beautiful.
These words. they give me hope.
Hope...
...would be a welcome gift right now.
Have you spoken to Mirab?
Not yet.
I need to speak with my father. uh.
but I know all too well how that will go.
Then let me speak to him.
You don't know him like I do. David.
He's... He's stubborn.
He doesn't listen.
Why is this so difficult?
We'll be fine. don't worry.
It's like the world has conspired
to hold us back.
It's constantly pushing us
against the current.
No.
Well. then we... we will keep swimming.
Or better yet. we will change
the course of the river altogether.
Mychal. the Lord helped me defeat a giant.
I'm sure he will help me
speak to your father.
Mmm.
Well. my father.
he will not fall so easily.
What word. Abner?
Samuel has escaped the city.
He must have had help
to get beyond the walls.
We held Samuel captive?
To help him remember the former days. yes.
I have scouts searching for him.
Anything more overt
could have consequences--
The people revere him. As do I.
That old snake will slither into the grass
and bide his time.
Surely he'll show up at the tabernacle?
And there he will kiss my ring.
And if he refuses?
No.
You cannot harm Samuel. Father.
People would rise up.
My king.
Now is not the time. David.
What troubles you? Come.
There has been a great mistake.
I cannot marry Mirab...
when it is Mychal who I love.
She wants us to be together.
Surely her wishes matter.
and-and my choice is--
- Choice?
- Okay. you should go now.
No. no. no. Abner.
Let me tell you something about "choice."
Men go to war and death
when I order them to.
I feed my people. or they starve.
They live free or are enslaved
because I choose one way or the other.
No one dares question
the wisdom of my actions.
Who gave you the right?
- I only ask that you reconsider.
- Reconsider?
All right. all right. That's enough.
The King's gratitude
is a cup not many get to drink from.
Try and not choke on it.
Go.
Can you believe him? Why would he do this?
You know what he's like.
I'm sure he has his reasons.
What reasons? David loves me
and I love him. Father knows this.
There... There is no good reason
why he would have David marry you.
We should go.
We should go and talk to him.
You know. together.
We can convince him.
- get him to come to his senses--
- Will you stop cleaning?
- Father has made up his mind.
- No.
And I am the older sister.
so it does make sense.
Mirab.
Perhaps Father thinks
you are too softhearted for David.
for what he needs to become.
- Softhearted?
- No. relax.
I didn't mean to offend.
I'm sure you didn't either.
Right.
I cannot marry Mirab. I will not.
David.
You cannot let frustration distract you.
See? Distracted.
You're our new commander?
- I'm David.
- Yes. yes. I know who you are.
It's an honor to serve under you.
Uriah.
And I am Oaz.
Oaz.
Nice to meet both of you.
Thank you for the hand. Uriah.
Don't you all have duties?
My prince.
- You're improving.
- Am I?
- No.
- Hmm.
I was disarmed and humiliated more than
a few times when I was learning.
Yes. well. you were a boy.
not a commander.
We're all capable of becoming more.
Take up your sword.
Less sparring. more footwork...
and balance.
You see?
A soldier is not just brute force.
He is finesse.
You try.
Keep your weight low. your feet light.
With confidence.
You have to trust that you deserve this.
You see. my father taught me long ago...
a leader must believe
he is cut from that cloth.
Whether it started as fine silk or wool.
a king can be fashioned from either.
Who told you to stop?
Keep moving.
- Oh... Yes.
- Again.
Yes. Let it flow.
Use your hips.
Be strong.
- Let's go.
- Mm-hmm.
Again.
Balance.
- You ready?
- It's a bet. Ow!
Better.
Pointing towards
your enemy always. Nice.
And forward on the same foot. cut down.
Good.
The boy is a natural.
A hero in the making.
Yes.
But if he shines too bright
even a king may find himself blinded.
I know what I'm doing.
And yet you invited chaos into our home.
Our daughters...
Why must you make these decisions
without discussing with me first?
Remember.
You're right.
Part of love is trust and honesty.
A husband and wife should keep
no secrets from each other.
Do you agree?
Who told you?
Does it matter?
I was meaning to tell you myself
when the time was right.
And yet. you did not.
I understand.
You did what you felt you had to.
But admit it.
you did grieve me a bit quickly.
May I never have to again.
My love...
Never lie to me again.
Supplies are low with ore.
We must continue this another time.
- Give us a few days.
- Yes.
You summoned us. Father?
There are many matters to be resolved.
Not least is Eshbaal's return.
Mmm. So how do we settle
the dispute with Yahir?
Eshbaal will wed Dinah.
the daughter of Yahir of Dan.
This was my decision.
The Law of Moses will be respected.
The kingdom will be stronger for it.
You and your men will escort
your brother to negotiate.
Be wise and respectful.
Show Yahir we take him seriously.
David should lead.
Yes. teach him.
A leader of men
is more than just a warrior.
You must also be capable
of crafting peace.
Thank you. my king.
You have your orders.
You're really going to marry her?
I thought you said she had a lumpy back.
In truth. I don't remember.
You have everything?
Be safe.
You may want to keep a closer eye on him.
Good luck on your little adventure.
When you return.
we can begin to make arrangements.
Can't let Eshbaal
be the first to marry. can we?
I must be going.
Hello.
My queen.
My friend.
The king has been restored.
Now is the time when magic and witchcraft
must return to the shadows.
I'm afraid it is not safe
for you to remain here in Gibeah.
So I am to be banished?
No. No. this is not a punishment.
I am protecting both of us.
I owe you a debt of gratitude...
for your friendship...
and discretion.
If you ever need me again...
I will find you.
The room has been done already.
The jeweler has repaired your necklace.
I was returning it.
Your duties are with the princesses.
See to those.
Yes. my queen.
I trust you've checked every corner
for scorpions?
Scorpions. my queen?
Yes. elusive little things.
Crawling through the smallest crack.
hoping to catch their prey unaware.
We must be careful to crush them
before they can do any harm.
You're hurting me.
The people would celebrate a union
between David and either princess.
Why can it not be me?
Even in victory
there are still wolves at my door.
I need the giant killer at my side.
He is a symbol of God's faith in me.
And I could make him happy.
This is not about
making him happy.
This is about shaping him into the man
I need him to become to serve my will.
- But. Father--
- Mychal.
I love you
with the light of a thousand stars.
But your sister is right.
She is the better choice.
Did Mirab ask you for this?
She did.
It is what best serves our nation.
My-Mychal.
- Mirab.
- Mychal?
It's not just... [sobbing] ...men
who climb ladders to reach their ambition.
It's petty sisters too.
How much further 'til Dan?
Are you finding horse riding
uncomfortable. brother?
Or we could always arrange
a donkey for you.
Or you could just walk.
Your brother does not hide
his jealousy well.
I didn't ask to be in command of him.
I just want him to think I'm worthy.
Well. if you seek it
from those who won't give it.
it says more about you than them.
So. do you know how much further to Dan?
Make way for the princes of Israel.
Jonathan and Eshbaal.
In what cause?
An audience with your lord. Yahir of Dan.
You won't find him at his court.
He's in the woods beyond.
No matter what happens.
don't lose your temper.
When do I ever lose my temper. my prince?
Yahir of Dan.
I heard that a little dog
was on the loose again.
Come to grovel at my feet. hmm?
We are here
on the orders of your king.
Oh? The same king whose wife
ordered her son into banishment
for his sins against my house?
Yet there he is.
We only wish to talk.
We're not talking.
We're hunting.
Hunting what?
Wild boar.
Boar is unclean.
You invoke the law to me while standing
beside your brother who broke it?
Still. we don't eat it.
but the Philistines do.
and they have metal to trade for it.
Brother.
I offer what you first requested.
A union by marriage of our two houses.
No. I am not interested
in lifting your shame.
Do not turn your back on your prince.
Perhaps. uh. I could speak with Dinah.
- Ask her thoughts?
- When did her thoughts matter?
I think you have traveled
many miles for nothing.
Best be on your way.
Are you the one
they call the giant killer?
Actually. it's. uh. giant slayer.
Yes. I am David.
I wonder if you are as quick with a blade
as you are with a sling?
Only one way to find out.
Join me.
I will not hunt an unclean animal.
Very well.
But you walk. don't you?
Come.
Let's hunt!
Quiet now.
Boars are clever animals.
Dangerous too. when cornered.
Much like the king.
Dead by my blade!
Dinah.
we have royal company.
Here to beg for your dainty hand.
You don't remember me?
Well. the king has secured
a great victory.
The leaders who did not support him in his
hour of need. they face consequences.
Are you threatening me?
We're handing you an opportunity.
Marrying Eshbaal and Dinah
could prove mutually beneficial.
After a war. a king has debts.
What better way to pay them than lean on
the wealthiest leader in all the land?
And yet your mother...
...disrespected me.
Yeah. a mistake she regrets. I assure you.
What of you. giant slayer?
What wisdom do you have for me?
You spoke of disrespect before.
It is a feeling I know well.
All my life. so many voices telling me
I was less than who I know I am.
But I chose to draw strength from
their words. and not be wounded by them.
To rise above.
Well said.
You could reject the king's offer.
and gain nothing.
Or you could show strength
and see what there is to gain.
Surely. profit heals many wounds.
Huh?
Spoken like a true man of commerce.
I'd be careful.
This one's more of a leader
than he yet realizes.
You're quite handy with that.
For a woman?
For anyone.
Were you not joining in the celebration?
It was your kill after all.
That's not how my father tells it.
I am sorry. Dinah...
for all the shame I brought upon you.
Careful. Eshbaal...
I've already gutted one pig today.
I've heard the stories
about how your father treats you.
I wasn't the son he wanted.
I'm the one enduring
symbol of his failures.
Well. that we share.
Perhaps together we could change it?
I'm not marrying you. Eshbaal.
just so you can escape the Law of Moses.
No. it would be an escape for both of us.
You don't like me. [chuckles] Fair enough.
But marriage doesn't have to be for love.
- Oh. whisper in my ear. sweet prince.
- Dinah.
Dinah. I'm giving you the chance
at freedom from this place.
Take it.
I will not birth you an heir.
And I want a stallion.
along with the king's
grace to go hunting as much as I like.
Those are my terms.
Of course.
And. Eshbaal...
I won't pretend to love you.
I don't have it in me.
Abner...
Is it come to this?
I wish there was another way.
So you're just another knife for the king?
A tool for his aimless wrath?
I swore an oath.
We are kin. Abner.
Blood means more than oaths.
You used to be noble.
Please. Please. Abner.
You get out of here. Get out of Israel.
Say a word to no one.
or I will find you and I will kill you.
Go!
Goodbye. Abner.
More wine.
It appears there is no more
for you to take. sister.
I'll do this. Thank you.
Where is your father?
I'm not sure.
I wish I could make things easier
for you. but...
we all have obligations.
Please. Mother. I do not need one more
person telling me to get over this.
It's so much more than that.
You saw your father before the battle?
How far he's fallen?
And part of his torment
was of your making.
- Spells and witchcraft--
- Hush now.
They weren't even legal.
but you saw fit to change that.
didn't you?
Where did you hear that?
Ahimelech. He was--
Leave us.
You will never speak
of this again to anyone.
I know what you did. Mother.
And poor Ahimelech was made
to transcribe your sin.
One day you will know
what it feels like
to make terrible decisions
in order to save the ones you love.
Do you care about this family?
Of course I do.
Then you will respect
your father's decision...
and let this go.
All right.
Well handled. David.
Yahir would have
turned us away but for you.
I only told him the truth.
No. No. you offered him an alternative.
Found a middle path.
I suppose I learned that from my mother.
She was a woman of patience.
Perhaps. but you have something
that cannot be taught.
Conviction.
You see. soldiers. they'll follow orders
without respecting their leader.
But if you can convince them that you
would just as willingly die in their cause
as you would your own.
those men would follow you
into the fires of hell.
I thought I was being called to breakfast.
just the two of us.
Didn't we agree no more secrets?
And yet you took my signet ring
from my finger while I suffered.
Changed my law without consent!
I had no other choice.
I was protecting you.
I told you not to lie to me.
and yet here we are again.
You were foolish to assume
someone wouldn't reveal the truth to me.
A scorpion... after all.
Saul...
I made a mistake. It pains me.
You will not accompany me
and our family to the tabernacle.
Instead. you will remain in the palace
and consider how you wish to carry on...
Of all the dangers I face.
I never believed you would be one.
- Saul--
- Go!
Now!
Kezia.
You stay.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. Whoa. whoa.
What is it?
Why are the guards
no longer standing watch?
Take arms! Take arms!
Abi. hold him up!
Jonathan! Get him down!
I think there's something wrong.
My princess. my name is Sara.
I am a healer. I can help.
Mychal. help me.
Right here.
Sara...
Are you injured?
Not this time.
Then help us. Come.
Who would be so bold
to attack a royal convoy?
They weren't Philistines.
More like a band of cutthroats.
With what intent?
Kill a prince.
Rob one of the wealthiest lords
in the kingdom.
Whatever they wanted.
Yahir is the one who is dead.
And with him dies your accuser. Eshbaal.
I want answers. Abner.
Otherwise. allies of Yahir will suspect
I had something to do with this.
- Go.
- Yes. sir.
My king. may I have a moment?
Please. don't ask once again
to marry Mychal.
No. my king. I come
with a different request.
If I am to be joined with your family.
I ask that you grant me time.
Like any good son. I wish my father
to be here to bless my union.
But he and my family are still grieving
the loss of my brother Nathaneel.
He will be remembered with honor.
More than this.
I know that Mychal and Mirab have
different feelings about the marriage.
And they shouldn't be rushed
to accept the wisdom of your choice.
And I... I need time
to become a commander and prince
worthy of your house.
Hmm.
Your charm worked on Yahir.
but I am not so easy.
Consider this a compromise.
A middle path.
What I ask for is fair and compassionate.
Surely. a great king is both.
Very well.
For the sake of all.
we will take time for the wedding.
Thank you. Thank you. my king.
But know this.
You still have much to learn. Hmm?
It's my mother's. so don't tell anyone.
Perfect.
- I will let you talk.
- Mmm.
Thank you.
Dinah...
Please.
I am truly sorry we could not protect
your father. but with his death...
it will not be safe
for you to return home.
Without a male heir. other nobles in
your tribe will surely claim leadership.
Not a noble man amongst them.
And you would be easy prey.
Not so easy. and they know it.
Dinah. we both know
a giant fell to a lesser man.
You must remain here.
The king will quickly tire of my company.
He has no duty to me.
To the daughter of a fallen lord. no.
But to the wife of a prince?
I am in no need of your charity. Eshbaal.
No. it's...
...it's more than that. I. uh...
I find you...
intriguing.
You know...
you never defiled me that night.
Drunk. full of the urge.
But you fell asleep at my side.
But your father. that...
...that was his entire claim.
Yes. because he believed it happened
even though I told him it did not.
You gave him an opportunity to rid
himself of me and extort the king.
Eshbaal...
you owe me nothing.
Wait.
We owe it to ourselves then.
to become more than our fathers expected.
Together we can have a second chance.
We marry tomorrow.
Under the circumstances.
we need no ceremony.
This is what I offer.
Can I tend to it?
I've just boiled this. It's cleaner.
It seems to be healing nicely.
Well. it was tended to
by an excellent healer.
Tell me.
Wise. yet defiant.
Perhaps not properly yet seen
for her value.
Beautiful.
I would like to meet this healer.
Well. you should.
Why did you decide to come?
Your brother sent messengers
and gifts on your behalf.
Unrelenting. really.
But in truth. I couldn't stop wondering
if you'd recovered.
So. I thought I would see for myself.
Up.
It seems you have.
Mostly.
Not fully.
That will take a great deal of time.
I'm a very slow healer...
and I need constant care.
Ah! The ruthless warrior.
I am here for the king.
And what business
do you have with the king?
I offer information in exchange
for his grace. Now step aside.
You attempted a mutiny
on the battlefield. traitor.
Whatever you have to say to the king.
you will first say to me.
My king. Adriel brings important news.
My king. please...
I kneel at your feet to beg of your mercy.
My king.
Please.
You know well the punishment for traitors.
But what if I had information
that would prove my loyalty?
Information of what kind?
I saw Samuel come to Bethlehem.
I know which house he visited.
My king. I know who he anointed.
-== [ www.OpenSubtitles.com ] ==-